As
I recall, Gine Hall, a Greek type of building with
columns in front, and they had plays and musicals
and so forth there. And I would go to the
entertainment there to Gine Hall. Did Aggies make
noise in Gine sometimes? Yes, I'm sure they did.
I'm sure they did. So you're going home from your
freshman year feeling good. Right. What did you do
that summer? That summer, I wanted to get
experience in the oil field, so I went to Mr.
McGowan and I said, I want to get a job to get some
experience in the oil and gas industry. So he sent
me to a compressor station they had at Latex,
Texas.
My first job was as an
assistant in a machine shop. I cleaned up stuff.
I remember the guy who ran the lathe and so forth. I
tried to learn things from him, but it was a dirty
job. very dirty job, but I wanted to be as macho as I
could be. I remember Mr. McGahn had a daughter who
was a good friend of the girl I had gone with in Byrd
High School. They came out to see me at three
o'clock one afternoon, and I was so embarrassed
that these girls would come out there and destroy
my macho image. And then at the last of the summer,
though, I played tennis at Texas A&M, and I had
aspirations to be a I went to tennis tournaments
for the last part of the summer,
but I had gotten in some experience in the
compressive station. So you come back in the fall
of 34 as a sophomore. Right. How was life better for
a sophomore? Oh, it was much better. You didn't run
errands. You had the fish to run errands for you.
You
had a certain amount of status. You knew the ropes,
and you had made friends. Anyway,
as opposed to your freshman year when everything
was so uncertain about whether you could survive
or not, why, here you are in control. Did you use a
paddle? Oh yes, oh yes, yes. Where did you get your
paddle? I think, actually, Hudson and I shared it.
I think Hudson brought it from Shreveport, and we
shared his paddle, isn't that right? Still didn't
have a car? No, still had no car. And what was your
task in your outfit as a sophomore? Did you have
any? As a sophomore, I was a corporal, and
we actually were in charge of the But I went out for
cross country my sophomore year under Colonel
Anderson. And that took a lot of time, and then
played basketball under Coach Reed. And then I
played tennis under Coach, under J.P. Abbott. And
then the classes became more interesting,
geology and
And I really enjoyed the English classes under,
and that's when I won the sophomore writing
contest. Was that under Dr. Abbott? Was he your
English? He was my English prof, but actually the
ones that decided it was a three-man panel, I
think, that decided who won the $25. Geology, who
were some? faculty members that were? Let me see.
I remember, Torium Engineering, Harold Vance was
the, and he had a lot of influence on not only me, but
a lot of people. And Vance was head of the Torium
Engineering Department. And he taught as much
philosophy as anything. And people, outstanding
people like Bum Bright and so forth, have
really... Have you talked to Bum, incidentally?
He's worth talking to. He'll tell you about his
experience with Vance. But Vance made a... I mean,
his philosophy about life and so forth, had more
effect than really your classes. But he was a
graduate of Stanford.
But A&M's Pretoria Engineering School has always
been tops in the country. When you got into the real
world of petroleum engineering, did you find that
A&M had prepared you well? Oh yes, I sure did. I
thought The combination of A&M and MIT, I was glad I
went to MIT. MIT, it was a different culture, of
course,
but A&M, had the reputation which with me stuck in
that you had a good basic knowledge of physics, of
math, and so and also the ability to get along with
other men that and I found out that various
companies that A&M's reputation was that people
had a good basic educational foundation and they
didn't mind getting their hands dirty and they got
along well with other guys. I've heard from
others, wonder if you agree with this, A&M has
always been strong in the real and And schools like
MIT in the theoretical. Exactly, that's
absolutely true. You found that to be true? Oh
yeah, that's absolutely true. Was there
anything, when you got into the real world
petroleum industry, was there anything that A&M
had overlooked?
I'd say the
It was something that, educational-wise, I don't
think so. I think A&M had prepared you for the real
world pretty good. During your four years at A&M,
describe the student body in general. Where did
they come from? What kinds of families?
Background? Money or lack of money? I'd say for the
most, the students at A&M were people who really
wanted to get an education. That was the
controlling thing. Some came from moneyed
families, but most of them didn't. I'd say
certainly more than half of them worked in the mess
hall or did other things.
But the common denominator was that these people
wanted an education. And one of the people in my
class was a guy named Anderson, I remember. He
actually came, he hoboed into College Station on a
freight train, but he had some sort of a federal
assistance program he was on. And this guy later
ended up working on the atomic bomb in Alamogarda.
Here's a guy who comes in on a freight train. But the
student body itself was...
I'd say the difference in A&M and most other
schools was the
fact that the The principal purpose for their
being there was to get an education as opposed to
Texas, which let's say a lot of people go to Texas
for their social life, at least at that time
compared to A&M. Were there kids from, most Aggies
from small towns or rural or from the cities? Small
towns or rural mostly. As I recall, somebody from
Highland Park was sort of an oddity, for instance.
Did y'all ever tease anybody about their being
broke and not having any money? No, because most
people were broke themselves.
Did it matter whether you were a Catholic or a
Baptist or a Jew? Well, no, I think that's one of the
things about A&M is that a person was accepted for
what he was. And I think you respected other
people's faiths. They had various organizations
like the Hillel Club and the Catholic Clubs and so
forth. And people, their faiths were never were
never even questioned, as I recall. And a guy who,
and let's say when people elected class officers
or something, it wasn't some moneyed guy, it was
how he was viewed by his peers. Did you all have
religious emphasis weak then? I'm not sure we did,
the religious week as such, except that we... Did
you participate in any Sunday activities? Oh,
yes, yes. I was a, my, I was, earlier was a
Methodist, my mother was a Methodist, but then I
joined the Presbyterian Church, and so I used to go
to services there, the Presbyterian services.
And where were they held? I think in Bryan at that
time, I'm not sure. But I remember I used to go to the
services. We got there just as the new church in
Bryan was opening. Is that right? The old one
downtown was still there. Is that right? And I
saved one of the pews that was in the truck to be
taken to the dump. Is that right? And then gave it
back to them about four years ago. And I still have
one of the... light fixtures. Is that right? That
was also in the tribe. Is that right? Now Colonel
Andy was a Presbyterian. Right. Were there any
student church related groups that met on campus?
Yeah, I think there were. I think there were. I
think certainly the
Jewish boys, I think, met on campus. I'm not sure
about the Catholics, but I think the Protestants
went into Brine, but I'm not sure about that. Now,
at Northgate, what churches were already there?
I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Were there any Hispanic
students? Mexican-American? Oh, yes. Yes. There
were a number of Hispanic students. Nothing like
now, but there were a number of Hispanic students.
How were they treated? Just like anybody else.
What you were, you know. Were there any
international students in your years? Some, but
they were quite few, the international. But I
remember in my class, Eddie Longoria was a
classmate of mine, and his family was big in
banking in Mexico.
And I remember a guy named Josephi was in my class,
and his family had a ranch in Mexico. And Eddie was a
quarter mile on the track team, Eddie LaGoria. But
anybody was regarded on what he was, what he did.
Now, the Depression was hitting everybody hard.
Right. Had the project houses started? while you
were there? Those at the south of Kyle Field where
the country boys lived? I don't think so. I don't
think so. I think, as I recall, everybody lived in
the different halls, you know, at Hart Hall and
Purr Year and so forth. Now south of Hart Hall And
where the MSC is now, there are lots of faculty and
staff houses. Right. Did you students ever go over
in that area? Yes, as a matter of fact, I remember
J.P. Abbott invited the tennis team for dinner at
his place. Oh, describe that. Describe what a
faculty house was like then. Well, it was a frame
house, relatively small, J.P. Abbott was a
graduate of Vanderbilt, and I think his wife was,
too. Very charming southern people, very
hospitable. And I remember we had dinner, and
tablecloth, napkins, loved beautiful silver,
and which You know, after eating in the mess hall
was a real treat. But
anyway, the faculty houses somewhat reminded me
of when I visited my uncle in Fort Robinson,
Nebraska, of the different houses of the
captains, the majors, and so forth, all according
to rank.
The students never pulled any pranks over on a
faculty or staff house? Not that I knew of. Not that
I know of at all. When did you and your buddies
discover there were steam tunnels on the campus?
There were what? Steam tunnels. I don't think I
ever did. Oh, really? No. Oh? No, I don't think I
ever did. I never knew of it. They're big. These are
about six by eight foot tunnels. Now, of course,
they're all locked and screened off. But after
World War II, that would be the way where you went
from one door to another. Well, they weren't
there. At least I never heard of them, as a matter of
fact. The campus organizations that had the
highest prestige I presume the Corps would be the
first one. Of all of the student leadership
positions on the campus, which one would have been
the most respected? Would it be Corps Commander?
Yes, the Corps Commander. And then maybe second
the captain of the football team. But then in the
military, after the Corps Commander, the most
prestigious things were to be your CO of your
company or your battery, your captain of your
company or your battery. And those were highly
competitive jobs or offices, let's say, that were
decided after your experience at camp, which was
your junior year. And then the military officers
picked who would be captain of of each outfit. Were
those people selected usually on a fair basis? Oh,
yeah. Oh, yeah. Like I said, it was a very
competitive thing.
Actually,
in my battery,
the two of us really were competing to be captain of
E Battery, Fred Silvey, and he and I ended up as
roommates. I know that Fred wanted that position,
but he took it in stride and he was on the staff How
did you learn you had been selected? How did you get
that information? As I recall, it was published.
It was published. So nobody told you in advance?
Nobody to know. It was published in orders. What
did your outfit buddies do to you after that?
After...
Didn't they play some kind of joke on you or
something? I don't remember, really, other than I
think there were six of us who were officers in E
Battery. I
think all I did was congratulating me, that was
all. They didn't drown you out that night? No, they
didn't drown me out, no. Describe the duties of a
company commander. What did you have to do during
that year? A company commander actually looked
after his
entire unit. He was responsible for the welfare of
everybody in his unit and of individual things,
like he approved passes for them to go on the
weekend. He kept up with their academics and that
he saw that there was discipline in his outfit. in
conference with the rest of the seniors, and the
seniors really ran the school at that time, and in
conference with other seniors established
what the disciplines would be, and really sort of
and sort of controlled hazing to a certain extent.
But when Colonel Andy came in, Colonel Andy had
decided to cut out the board, and I was not the only
one affected. I think some others also got busted
for a while and got reinstated.
what were some of the fun things, contrast the high
and low points of being a company commander? What
were some of the joys and the But some of the joys was
actually leading your battery, your company, in
reviews and also in your court trips, your marches
down the street.
When
you had special dances there where you invited
your girlfriends down there while you were a big
dog in the eyes of these gals.
Trying to deal with those sophomores that had used
the board was a tough task. What about some other
tough task that you had to do.
You actually
carried out inspections of
the different rooms and
And the Commandant, of course, would carry out
inspections on a monthly basis or so, but you
yourself carried out inspections in the meantime
to be sure that they were... And you saw that the
orders were were followed that the commandant put
out, as a matter of fact. And you were responsible
for that, which you did through the first sergeant
and so forth. But the chain of command was, I think,
was one of the best educational things that I saw.
What did you and your buddies think about the yell
leaders, the singing cadets, the band? We
respected and liked all of them. Like singing the
cadets, we thought that was great. The band was
held in very high respect and it was sort of special
to be in the band.
here at A&M without a music school that was able to
put on a first class band. Excuse me, just let me
call some guy. We were talking about
organizations and so on. Yes. What did you and your
buddies, what about the Yell Eaters? Was that a
high prestige? Oh yeah, it was a very high prestige
thing. Yeah, it was a very high prestige thing. And
the guy,
the Yale leader, I forget whether they were
elected or not, but it was a high prestige. Were you
aware that there were secret fraternities in
existence at that time? Yeah, yeah. Which ones
were there as far as you know? There was something
called Stickers and one called,
well, let's see, Stickers and... T.T.? T.T.s,
T.T.s, right. As far as you were aware, which one
had higher prestige? Well, the TTs were the... I'd
say they had different statuses. The TTs were
actually more social guys. The stickers were
more the athletic people. And they had different,
I'd
say, different
types of a
Of reputation. Did the average student know there
were secretaries? No, no. Okay. The, let's see,
dates. How did you and your buddies get dates?
Well, in the case of, one of the ways was with the
CIA.
When I was president of the sophomore class, I
corresponded with the president of the sophomore
class at CIA, and we set up a deal for the CIA girls to
come down at a particular dance. And so that was one
way. How were they treated at that dance? like
Queens. They'd evacuate a building for them, a
hall, they'd evacuate a hall for them, and they
were treated like Queens. I mean, I've heard girls
say, you've never really known popularity until
you've gone to an A&M dance.
Now, did you meet a special young lady while you
were an undergraduate that you would later marry?
No, no. I met, when I was a senior, I remember a girl
named Lillian Street, and her brother was in my
battery, as a matter of fact. And she was from San
Antonio. She came up to the dances and so forth, the
senior dances as my date. And she later married one
of the guys in my outfit. What were the student
indulgences then? What did people smoke and
drink? A lot of people smoked. I never did. I was
always out for some team, and you couldn't smoke,
and I never wanted to.
People drank a lot more hard liquor then than they
now, as I understand it, kids drink beer mostly.
But actually,
people would, guys would pool their resources
when they'd maybe buy a bottle of gin or something
like that. Where did they buy it? Well, this was
when they'd leave the campus. I mean, go to
Houston. Was there a place out toward Snook? Was
Whiskey Bridge? I think there was. I never did buy
any liquor while I was at the campus, always
Houston or Dallas or wherever. Did you ever have
any problem when you were company commander with
somebody in the outfit with liquor in their room or
beer? I don't recall having any problem there. I
don't. All right. People smoked cigarettes? Oh,
yeah. Cigars? A lot of people smoked cigarettes
and cigars. Pipe? Pipe and so forth. Chewing
tobacco or snorting? Chewing tobacco, yes. As a
matter of fact, I think the fish had, at the first
baseball game, all had to chew tobacco. It made
everybody sick. Most of them made everybody sick.
Had you and your buddies ever heard of the words
marijuana or heroin? No, never even heard of it at
that time. It was a simpler era. Right. Who were the
famous people, the celebrities on the campus
then? Who was president when you got there? Dr.
Walton. Describe him. Dr. T.O. Walton, a
bald-headed guy who was
in the, I forget at what time, the administration
building I think had just been built, which is the
column building. The new . Yeah, right, right.
But Dr. Walton was looked on as almost
untouchable. He was the
big guru on the campus. But the deans were also, I'd
say, looked on with a certain amount of awe and
respect. Who was engineering? Dean Bolton was the
dean of engineering, and he determined whether
you were a distinguished student or not. The
different deans of the colleges did. I remember
Dean Brooks was the head of liberal arts
by being roomy with Hudson Van Lone, who used to go
see Dean Brooks about every two months. Thank you.